prerequisites
Ensure that git is installed in you pc
create a git hub account 

For you to link the local folder to a git repository:
a)open the terminal and create a repository
b)Navigate to the repository you created and initialize the repository using "git init" command this will create a git version 0f the diretory
c)add a file to the directory could be a .txt file or just any of your choice using cat <filename.doctype> doctype is the extension of your file
and use nano command to add simple text to your file
d) stage the file by use of git add <filename> for our case hello.txt to enable the changes to be made to the repo aand git add . allow you to commit all the modifications made to the repo
e)create a git hub repositoryand add all the file needed 
f) add the remote repository by use of the command git remote add origin <url_to_your_repo>
g)verify the repository by use of git remote -v
h)push changes to git hub by use of git push -u origin main add your username and passord which majorly you will need to use personal access token which can be generated by the following steps

Generate a Personal Access Token (PAT) for GitHub
Go to GitHub Settings:

Click on your profile picture in the top right corner and select Settings.
Navigate to Developer Settings:

Scroll down and click on Developer settings.
Generate a New Token:

Click on Personal access tokens and then Tokens (classic).
Click Generate new token.
Give your token a descriptive name.
Select the scopes (permissions) you need. At a minimum, you'll need repo for repository access.
Click Generate token.
Copy the Token:

Copy the generated token and keep it secure. You won't be able to see it again.
7. Use the PAT for Authentication
Push Changes Using the PAT:
When prompted for your username and password during git push, use your GitHub username as the username.
Use the PAT as the password.
